What is Version Control System?


A version control system allows users to keep track of the changes in software development projects, and enable them to collaborate on those projects. Using it, the developers can work together on code and separate their tasks through branches.

There can be several branches in a version control system, according to the number of collaborators. The branches maintain individuality as the code changes remain in a specified branch(s).

Developers can combine the code changes when required. Further, they can view the history of changes, go back to the previous version(s) and use/manage code in the desired fashion.

 


Best Version Control Systems
There are plenty of options available in the market. Hence, we have created a list of 10 best version control software to narrow the options and make things easier for you.

1. GitHub
GitHub helps software teams to collaborate and maintain the entire history of code changes. You can track changes in code, turn back the clock to undo errors and share your efforts with other team members.

It is a repository to host Git projects. For those wondering what is Git? It is an open source version control system that features local branching, multiple workflows, and convenient staging areas. Git version control is an easy to learn option and offers faster operation speed.

2. GitLab
GitLab comes with a lot of handy features like an integrated project, a project website, etc. Using the continuous integration (CI) capabilities of GitLab, you can automatically test and deliver the code.

You can access all the aspects of a project, view code, pull requests, and combine the conflict resolution.

3. Beanstalk
Beanstalk is an ideal option for those who need to work from remote places. This software is based on browser and cloud, allowing users to code, commit, review and deploy using a browser.

It can be integrated with messaging and email platforms for efficient collaborations related to codes and updates. It supports both Git and SVN and comes with built-in analytics features.

For security, it leverages encryption, two-factor authentication, and password protection functionalities.